thanks for joining us we start in Gaza
where Israeli strikes are once again
targeting civilians in every corner of
the strip it's been more than S months
of unrelenting bombardment and just a
short while ago the main UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees unra said it was
suspending food distribution because of
security concerns unra says it has also
run out of supplies to replenish its
warehouses because food hasn't entered
the strip more than half of the
population of Gaza depends on food aid
from un
well let's get the very latest with hind
alri who's in De Bala in central Gaza
and hind unra as we mentioned there
citing security concerns and a lack of
supplies for this decision to cease a to
Rafa but what does that mean for the
population
there well it means that the situation
is going to be more catastrophic we're
talking about more than half the
population of the Gaza Strip that
completely rely on uh food distributions
from onwa onwa released that they will
suspend their uh food distribution uh
due to the lack of supplies and security
but let's let me explain this we're
talking about more than 1 million
Palestinians who were seeking refuge in
uh Rafa now they have been displaced for
more than a couple of times they are
they moved to kanun and to um the middle
area and they do not have any type of
food assistance
the prices in the Gaza Strip are very
high where people have not been working
for more than S months right now they
they spent all their savings and the
only way they're relying on food and
getting food and feeding their children
is Ona and other a organizations but
this was expected especially that for
more than 2 weeks now nothing is being
entering from uh K Abu Salim and the
Rafa Crossing where all of the
Commodities the food commodities and the
fuel are not entering and this is
leading for a very dire situation in the
Gaza Strip all right hindel kudri
speaking to us from dear albala thank
you Scott Anderson is director of unra
Affairs in Gaza and he joins us from
Rafa itself uh a very warm welcome to
you so first of all please can you
explain to us what underscores this
decision not to operate in Rafa given
how dependent so many people are on your
help thank you for having me on this
evening and secondly our health centers
in Rafa Camp were both imped by the
operation and the evacuation orders um
so we have two Health Centers sh Rafa
Rafa Camp Health
Center both those unfortunately were in
the evacuation Zone um which is a
significant security risk staff but also
anyone that would be seeking Care at
those facilities and as a result we've
had to suspend operations this is the
combats exacerbated by that we're having
significant supply issues in terms of
getting enough food medicine and other
things in to sustain the
operation what conditions would need to
be met for you to continue operating
again I mean I think that we need a
cation of combat ideally I mean we need
to have a safe environment so our staff
can operate same people the innocent
civilians that we treat uh can seek
treatment um safely so what we need is
an end to the current operation we need
the supply open you know ideally we
would have 350 trucks a day at a minimum
just the popul Gaza if they all had the
right cargo at the right time we're near
that now we're less than 200 trucks a
day coming in for uh bringing in the aid
that everyone so desperately needs there
are a few glitches on the line but we
can mostly hear you so we will persist
Mr Anderson let me ask you this because
the unra chief Philip lazarini recently
spoke about physical violence faced by
unra workers operating across the
Palestinian territories can you give us
a sense of what that looks
like I mean it's it's exactly that it's
just many forms there's violence from
people that are seeking food there
there's violence that results from the
the current conflict between Israel and
Hamas and it's very much just people
being trapped in a very small space with
nowhere to go to seek safety um and it's
unfortunate um you know many of our
staff have died during this conflict and
and they're acting quite heroic every
day to continue to deliver services to
the people that are here I wanted to get
your response to the effectiveness of
this pier or pontoon that the Americans
have built uh just uh not far from from
Gaza City the aim is to bring in
obviously Aid much needed Aid to the
Gaza Strip uh from sea although it seems
to fall significantly short of what's
really needed in total across the strip
how effective do you think that is as a
source of
Aid I first I would say we welcome any
openings that bring more a into Gaza and
the UN has called for for a long time
and you know as long as this is additive
and not meant to be a replacement for
other Crossings it's very much welcome
uh few days so to really gauge its
efficiency and Effectiveness is going to
take a little bit more time uh but what
I would agree with you that you said is
we in Gaza and be that through the port
be or the pier or through the Crossing
in the North or primarily through Kum
Shalom uh we welcome anything coming in
through any of those Crossings but it
needs to be at a scale that's sufficient
to sustain the needs of the people in
Gaza all right Scott Anderson senior
deputy director of unra Affairs speaking
to us from Rafa many thanks for joining
us on
aler thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al